# ⚙️ Nginx

## 👀 What is nginx

`Nginx` (pronounced "engine x") is a popular open-source web server software that is widely used to serve static and dynamic content on the web. It was first released in 2004 by Igor Sysoev, and has since become one of the most popular web servers in use today.

Nginx is known for its high performance and low resource usage, making it particularly well-suited for serving high-traffic websites and applications. It uses an asynchronous, event-driven architecture to handle requests, which allows it to handle a large number of simultaneous connections with relatively low memory usage.

In addition to its use as a web server, Nginx is also often used as a reverse proxy, load balancer, and HTTP cache. It supports a wide range of protocols, including HTTP, HTTPS, SMTP, POP3, and IMAP, and can be used with a variety of programming languages and frameworks.

Overall, Nginx is a versatile and powerful tool that is essential for many web developers and system administrators.

::: tip
All above is generated by `ChatGPT`.🥱
:::

## ⚙️ Installation

To install the latest nginx on Ubuntu 20.04, follow these commands.

1. import `nginx` signing key.

    ```shell
    $ curl -fsSL https://nginx.org/keys/nginx_signing.key | sudo apt-key add -
    ```
   
2. add `nginx` to ubuntu repository.

    ```shell
    $ echo "deb https://nginx.org/packages/mainline/ubuntu/ $(lsb_release -cs) nginx" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/nginx.list
    ```
   
3. Update software list and install the latest `nginx`.

    ```shell
    $ sudo apt update
    $ sudo apt install nginx
    ```
   
4. Check if the nginx service is started.

    ```shell
    $ sudo systemctl status nginx
    ```
    
    If it is **inactive**, enter the command and check its status again.

    ```shell
    $ sudo systemctl start nginx
    ```
